---
title: Stephanie Martinez
sub_title: 'CNM (Certified Nurse Midwife), IBCLC'
profile_image_path:
mini_bio: "I was called to birth work when my brother's wife gave birth to their first child at home in 2011.\_ After over a decade of grassroots work advocating for reproductive rights and sexual justice for Black, Latinx, and Indigenous youth through venues as diverse as juvenile detention centers, faith-based organizations, shelters, and crisis hotlines, the birth helped me realize that I could truly bring my full skill set and self to birth work"
---

I was called to birth work when my brother's wife gave birth to their first child at home in 2011.  After over a decade of grassroots work advocating for reproductive rights and sexual justice for Black, Latinx, and Indigenous youth through venues as diverse as juvenile detention centers, faith-based organizations, shelters, and crisis hotlines, the birth helped me realize that I could truly bring my full skill set and self to birth work.  Nursing and midwifery seemed a logical progression so that I could provide trauma informed, holistic, and culturally sensitive healthcare that uses harm reduction to be inclusive to all people seeking healthier lives.

I joined Gentle Birth in 2015 as a nurse (RN), and thanks to the mentorship and support of Hillary, I become an International Board Certified Lactation Consultant (IBCLC) in 2016, and a Certified Nurse Midwife (CNM) in 2018.  As a fourth generation healer coming from a family of doctors, midwives, nurses, and pharmacists in Mexico, and publishers from the south side of Chicago, I believe in evidence-based practice served with home grown, organic tea.  I love herbal medicine and Traditional Mexican Medicine, and am grateful to teachers and elders who have shared knowledge with me.  I strive to provide emotional, spiritual, and physical support by honoring traditional birthing customs and promoting breastfeeding.  I am a fourth generation native life long resident of Chicago's south side, and am committed to providing quality services to all Chicago residents, particularly those living in the south side.  

I am bilingual in Spanish & English, and identify as genderqueer, mixed, Mexican, and Indigenous.  I'm honored to be a founding member of Chicago Birth Workers of Color, a group that earned the Reproductive Justice award from the Chicago Abortion Fund in 2017, and the Birth Justice award from Chicago Volunteer Doulas in 2016.  In the past, I enjoyed writing and performing, and some career highlights include winning Jeff awards for "Best Screenplay" & "Best Ensemble" for my work in Teatro Luna's production of "Machos," and winning the Gwendolyn Brooks Open Mic Poetry Award.